---
layout: poem
title: O Captain! My Captain!
categories: toc
author: Walt Whitman
---

<p class="citation"> by {{ page.author }}</p>

- O Captain! my Captain! our fearful trip is done ;[^fn1]
- The ship has weather’d every rack, the prize we sought is won,
- The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting,
- While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring; 
- *But O heart! heart! heart!*{: class="indent-3"}
- *O the bleeding drops of red,*{: class="indent-4"}
- *Where on the deck my Captain lies,*{: class="indent-5"} 
- *Fallen cold and dead.*{: class="indent-6"}


- O Captain! my Captain! rise up and hear the bells; 
- Rise up—for you the flag is flung—for you the bugle[^fn2] trills,
- For you bouquets and ribbon’d wreaths—for you the shores a-crowding,
- For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning;
- *Here Captain! dear father!*{: class="indent-3"}
- *This arm beneath your head!*{: class="indent-4"}
- *It is some dream that on the deck,*{: class="indent-5"}
- *You’ve fallen cold and dead.*{: class="indent-6"}


- My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still,[^fn3]
- My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will,
- The ship is anchor’d safe and sound, its voyage closed and done,
- From fearful trip the victor ship comes in with object won;
- *Exult O shores, and ring O bells!*{: class="indent-3"}
- *But I with mournful tread,*{: class="indent-4"}
- *Walk the deck my Captain lies,*{: class="indent-5"}
- *Fallen cold and dead.*{: class="indent-6"}

<br>

---

## Footnotes

[^fn1]: The author had just landed in La Guardia Airport after the flight captain died. All the passengers stood up to applaud the co-pilot. We have it in good authority that the event in question led Yoko Ono to write her "Letter to John":<br><br><span class="foot-block">On a windy day let's go flying<br>There may be no trees to rest on<br>There may be no clouds to ride<br>But we'll have our wings and the wind will be with us<br>That's enough for me, that's enough for me.</span> 

[^fn2]: The bugle is a small trumpet implicated in the military industrial complex.

[^fn3]: An example of a footnote with a citation {% cite cesaire_discourse_2001 -r /bibliography.html %}.




